Refine tiflash FAQ and configuration docs (#20851)
pingcap/docs: tiflash/troubleshoot-tiflash.md

## TiFlash fails to start

The issue might occur due to different reasons. It is recommended that you troubleshoot it as follows:

> 1. Check whether your system is RedHat Enterprise Linux 8.

Reviewer: See https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn/pull/20252/files#diff-876ba1df5b9fe8a6fcaa5df6b59bd278d51a3dab55594e3f9418888b857b3dc5R15
```suggestion
1. Check whether your system is CentOS 8.
```

>     RedHat Enterprise Linux 8 does not have the `libnsl.so` system library. You can manually install it via the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    CentOS 8 does not have the `libnsl.so` system library. You can manually install it using the following command:
```

>     CentOS 8 does not have the `libnsl.so` system library. You can manually install it using the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    CentOS 8 does not include the libnsl.so system library by default, which might cause TiFlash to fail to start. You can install it manually using the following command:
```

    ```shell
    dnf install libnsl
    ```

2. Check your system's `ulimit` parameter setting.

    ```shell
    ulimit -n 1000000
    ```

3. Use the PD Control tool to check whether there is any TiFlash instance that failed to go offline on the node (same IP and Port) and force the instance(s) to go offline. For detailed steps, refer to [Scale in a TiFlash cluster](/scale-tidb-using-tiup.md#scale-in-a-tiflash-cluster).

> 4. Check whether the CPU supports SIMD instructions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Check whether the CPU supports SIMD instructions.
```

```
+---------+------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Level   | Code | Message                                                                     |
+---------+------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Warning | 1105 | Scalar function 'subtime'(signature: SubDatetimeAndString, return type: datetime) is not supported to push down to tiflash now.       |
+---------+------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

## TiFlash replica is always unavailable

After the TiDB cluster is deployed, if the TiFlash replicas consistently fail to be created, or if the TiFlash replicas are initially created normally but all or some tables fail to be created after a period of time, you can do the following to troubleshoot the issue:

> 1. Check whether PD enables the `Placement Rules` feature. This feature is enabled by default since v5.0:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Check whether PD enables the `Placement Rules` feature. Starting from v5.0, this feature is enabled by default:
```

    ```shell
    echo 'config show replication' | /path/to/pd-ctl -u http://${pd-ip}:${pd-port}
    ```

    - If `true` is returned, go to the next step.
    - If `false` is returned, [enable the Placement Rules feature](/configure-placement-rules.md#enable-placement-rules) and go to the next step.

2. Check whether the TiFlash process is working normally by the `UpTime` on the TiFlash-Summary Grafana panel.

3. Check whether the connection between TiFlash and PD is normal.

    ```shell
    tiup ctl:nightly pd -u http://${pd-ip}:${pd-port} store
    ```

>     The TiFlash's `store.labels` includes information such as `{"key": "engine", "value": "tiflash"}`. You can check this information to confirm a TiFlash instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The TiFlash's `store.labels` includes the information such as `{"key": "engine", "value": "tiflash"}`. You can check this information to confirm a TiFlash instance.
```

4. Check whether the `count` of Placement Rule with the `default` ID is correct:

    ```shell
    tiup ctl:nightly pd -u http://${pd-ip}:${pd-port} config placement-rules show | grep -C 10 default
    ```

>     - If the value of `count` does not exceed the number of TiKV nodes in the cluster, go to the next step.
>     - If the value of `count` is greater than the number of TiKV nodes in the cluster. For example, if there is only one TiKV node in the testing cluster while the count is `3`, then PD will not add any Region peer to the TiFlash node. To address this issue, change `count` to an integer smaller than or equal to the number of TiKV nodes in the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - If the value of `count` is less than or equal to the number of TiKV nodes in the cluster, go to the next step.
    - If the value of `count` is greater than the number of TiKV nodes in the cluster. For example, if there is only one TiKV node in the testing cluster while the count is `3`, then PD will not add any Region peer to the TiFlash node. To address this issue, change `count` to an integer smaller than or equal to the number of TiKV nodes in the cluster.
```

    - If the disk usage reaches or exceeds `low-space-ratio`, it indicates insufficient disk space. In this case, take one or more of the following actions:

        - Modify the value of `low-space-ratio` to allow the PD to resume scheduling Regions to the TiFlash node until it reaches the new threshold. 

            ```
            tiup ctl:nightly pd -u http://${pd-ip}:${pd-port} config set low-space-ratio 0.9
            ```

        - Scale out new TiFlash nodes. PD will automatically balance Regions across TiFlash nodes and resume scheduling Regions to TiFlash nodes with enough disk space.

        - Remove unnecessary files from the TiFlash node disk, such as the logging files, and the `space_placeholder_file` file in the `${data}/flash/` directory. If necessary, set `storage.reserve-space` in `tiflash-learner.toml` to `0MB` at the same time to temporarily resume TiFlash service.

    - If the disk usage is less that the value of `low-space-ratio`, it indicates normal disk space availability. Proceed to the next step.

6. Check whether there is any `down peer`. Remaining down peers might cause the replication to get stuck.

>     Run the `pd-ctl region check-down-peer` command to check whether there is any `down peer`. If any, run the `pd-ctl operator add remove-peer <region-id> <tiflash-store-id>` command to remove it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Remaining down peers might cause the replication to get stuck. Run the following command to check whether there is any `down peer`. 
    
    ```shell
    pd-ctl region check-down-peer
    ```
    
    If any, run the following command to remove it.

    ```shell
    pd-ctl operator add remove-peer <region-id> <tiflash-store-id>
    ```

    If all the above checks pass but the issue persists, follow the instructions in [Data is not replicated to TiFlash](#data-is-not-replicated-to-tiflash) to identify which component or data replication process is experiencing issues.
```

If all the preceding configurations or TiFlash status are normal, follow the instructions in [Data is not replicated to TiFlash](#data-is-not-replicated-to-tiflash) to identify which component or data replication process is experiencing issues.

## Data is not replicated to TiFlash

After deploying a TiFlash node and starting replication by executing `ALTER TABLE ... SET TIFLASH REPLICA ...`, no data is replicated to it. In this case, you can identify and address the problem by performing the following steps:

> 1. Check whether the replication is successful by running the `ALTER table <tbl_name> set tiflash replica <num>` command and check the output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Check whether the replication is successful by running `ALTER TABLE ... SET TIFLASH REPLICA ...<num>` and check the output.
```

    - If the query is blocked, run the `SELECT * FROM information_schema.tiflash_replica` statement to check whether TiFlash replicas have been created.

>         - Check whether the DDL statement is executed as expected through [ADMIN SHOW DDL](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-show-ddl.md). Or there are any other DDL statement that block altering TiFlash replica statement being executed.
>         - Check whether any DML statement is executed on the same table through [SHOW PROCESSLIST](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-processlist.md) that blocks altering TiFlash replica statement being executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Check whether the DDL statement is executed as expected through [`ADMIN SHOW DDL`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-show-ddl.md). Or there are any other DDL statement that block altering TiFlash replica statement being executed.
        - Check whether any DML statement is executed on the same table through [`SHOW PROCESSLIST`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-processlist.md) that blocks altering TiFlash replica statement being executed.
```

    - You can wait until those queries or DDL finish or cancel them. If nothing is blocking the `ALTER TABLE ... SET TIFLASH REPLICA ...` being executed, go to the next step.

2. Check whether TiFlash Region replication runs correctly.

   Check whether there is any change in `progress` of `information_schema.tiflash_replica`. Alternatively, you can check the `progress` field with the keyword `Tiflash replica is not available` in TiDB logging:

   - If changes are detected, it indicates TiFlash replication is functioning normally (though potentially at a slower pace). Refer to [Data replication is slow](#data-replication-is-slow) for optimization configurations.
   - If no, TiFlash replication is abnormal. Go to the next step.

> 3. Check whether TiDB has created any placement rule for the table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Check whether TiDB has successfully created any placement rule for the table.
```

>     Search the logs of TiDB DDL Owner and check whether TiDB has notified PD to add placement rules. For non-partitioned tables, search `ConfigureTiFlashPDForTable`. For partitioned tables, search `ConfigureTiFlashPDForPartitions`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Search the logs of TiDB DDL Owner and check whether TiDB has notified PD to add placement rules. 
    
    - For non-partitioned tables, search `ConfigureTiFlashPDForTable`. 
    - For partitioned tables, search `ConfigureTiFlashPDForPartitions`.
```

    - If the keyword is found, go to the next step.

>     - If not found, collect logs of the corresponding component for troubleshooting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - If not found, collect logs of the corresponding component to [get support](/support.md).
```

4. Check whether PD has configured any placement rule for tables.

>     Run the `curl http://<pd-ip>:<pd-port>/pd/api/v1/config/rules/group/tiflash` command to view all TiFlash placement rules on the current PD.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Run the following command to view all TiFlash placement rules on the current PD.
    
    ```shell
    `curl http://<pd-ip>:<pd-port>/pd/api/v1/config/rules/group/tiflash`
    ````

    - If a rule with the ID format `table-<table_id>-r` exists, the PD has configured a placement rule successfully. Go to the next step.
    - If such a rule does not exist, collect logs of the corresponding component to [get support](/support.md).
```

> 
>     - If a rule with the ID being `table-<table_id>-r` is found, the PD has configured a placement rule successfully. Go to the next step.
>     - If not found, collect logs of the corresponding component for troubleshooting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

5. Check whether the PD schedules properly.

    Search the `pd.log` file for the `table-<table_id>-r` keyword and scheduling behaviors like `add operator`. Alternatively, check whether there are `add-rule-peer` operator on the "Operator/Schedule operator create" of PD Dashboard on Grafana. You can also check the value "Scheduler/Patrol Region time" on the PD Dashboard on Grafana. "Patrol Region time" reflects the duration for PD to scan all Regions and generate scheduling operations. A high value might cause delays in scheduling.

>     - If the keyword is found, the PD schedules properly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - If the` pd.log` contains the keyword `table-<table_id>-r` along with `add operator` scheduling actions, or if the duration values on the "Scheduler/Patrol Region time" panel appear normal, it indicates that PD scheduling is functioning properly.
```

>     - If no scheduling operations are running, or the **Patrol Region time** is more than 30 minutes, the PD does not schedule properly or is scheduling slowly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - If no `add-rule-peer` scheduling operations are running, or the **Patrol Region time** is more than 30 minutes, the PD does not schedule properly or is scheduling slowly.
```

> If the preceding methods cannot resolve your issue, collect the TiDB, PD, TiFlash log files and [get support](/support.md) from PingCAP or the community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the preceding methods cannot resolve your issue, collect the TiDB, PD, and TiFlash log files, and [get support](/support.md) from PingCAP or the community.
```

        - Remove unnecessary files from the TiFlash node disk, such as the logging files, and the `space_placeholder_file` file in the `${data}/flash/` directory. If necessary, set `storage.reserve-space` in `tiflash-learner.toml` to `0MB` at the same time to temporarily resume TiFlash service.

    - If the disk usage is less that the value of `low-space-ratio`, it indicates normal disk space availability. Proceed to the next step.

6. Check whether there is any `down peer`. 

    Remaining down peers might cause the replication to get stuck. Run the following command to check whether there is any `down peer`. 
    
    ```shell
    pd-ctl region check-down-peer
    ```
    
    If any, run the following command to remove it.

    ```shell
    pd-ctl operator add remove-peer <region-id> <tiflash-store-id>
    ```

If all the preceding checks pass but the issue persists, follow the instructions in [Data is not replicated to TiFlash](#data-is-not-replicated-to-tiflash) to identify which component or data replication process is experiencing issues.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

1. Check whether the replication is successful by running `ALTER TABLE ... SET TIFLASH REPLICA ...<num>` and check the output.

    - If the query is blocked, run the `SELECT * FROM information_schema.tiflash_replica` statement to check whether TiFlash replicas have been created.
        - Check whether the DDL statement is executed as expected through [`ADMIN SHOW DDL`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-show-ddl.md). Or there are any other DDL statement that block altering TiFlash replica statement being executed.
        - Check whether any DML statement is executed on the same table through [`SHOW PROCESSLIST`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-processlist.md) that blocks altering TiFlash replica statement being executed.
    - You can wait until those queries or DDL finish or cancel them. If nothing is blocking the `ALTER TABLE ... SET TIFLASH REPLICA ...` being executed, go to the next step.

2. Check whether TiFlash Region replication runs correctly.

>    Check whether there is any change in `progress` of `information_schema.tiflash_replica`. Alternatively, you can check the `progress` field with the keyword `Tiflash replica is not available` in TiDB logging:
> 
>    - If changes are detected, it indicates TiFlash replication is functioning normally (though potentially at a slower pace). Refer to [Data replication is slow](#data-replication-is-slow) for optimization configurations.
>    - If no, TiFlash replication is abnormal. Go to the next step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Query the [`information_schema.tiflash_replica`](/information-schema/information-schema-tiflash-replica.md) table to check whether the `PROGRESS` field, which indicates the TiFlash replica synchronization progress, is changing. Alternatively, search for the keywords `Tiflash replica is not available` in the `tidb.log` to review related logs and the corresponding `progress` values.

   - If the replication progress changes, it indicates TiFlash replication is functioning normally, but potentially at a slow pace. Refer to [Data replication is slow](#data-replication-is-slow) for optimization configurations.
   - If the replication progress does not change, TiFlash replication is abnormal. Go to the next step.
```

2. Check whether TiFlash Region replication runs correctly.

   Check whether there is any change in `progress`:

   - If changes are detected, it indicates TiFlash replication is functioning normally (though potentially at a slower pace). Please refer to the "Data replication is slow" section for optimization configurations.
   - If no, TiFlash replication is abnormal. In `tidb.log`, search the log saying `Tiflash replica is not available`. Check whether `progress` of the corresponding table is updated. If not, go to the next step.

3. Check whether TiDB has created any placement rule for tables.

    Search the logs of TiDB DDL Owner and check whether TiDB has notified PD to add placement rules. For non-partitioned tables, search `ConfigureTiFlashPDForTable`. For partitioned tables, search `ConfigureTiFlashPDForPartitions`.

    - If the keyword is found, go to the next step.
    - If not, collect logs of the corresponding component for troubleshooting.

4. Check whether PD has configured any placement rule for tables.

>     Run the `curl http://<pd-ip>:<pd-port>/pd/api/v1/config/rules/group/tiflash` command to view all TiFlash placement rules on the current PD. If a rule with the ID being `table-<table_id>-r` is found, the PD has configured a placement rule successfully.

Author: ```suggestion
    Run the `curl http://<pd-ip>:<pd-port>/pd/api/v1/config/rules/group/tiflash` command to view all TiFlash placement rules on the current PD.
        - If a rule with the ID being `table-<table_id>-r` is found, the PD has configured a placement rule successfully, go to the next step.
        - If not, collect logs of the corresponding component for troubleshooting.
```

5. Check whether the PD schedules properly.

>     Search the `pd.log` file for the `table-<table_id>-r` keyword and scheduling behaviors like `add operator`.

Author: ```suggestion
    Search the `pd.log` file for the `table-<table_id>-r` keyword and scheduling behaviors like `add operator`. Or check whether there are `add-rule-peer` operator on the "Operator/Schedule operator create" of PD Dashboard on Grafana.
```

1. Check whether the replication is successful by running the `ALTER table <tbl_name> set tiflash replica <num>` command and check the output.

    - If the query is blocked, run the `SELECT * FROM information_schema.tiflash_replica` command to check whether TiFlash replicas have been created.
        - Check whether the DDL statement is executed as expected through [ADMIN SHOW DDL](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-show-ddl.md). Or there are any other DDL statement that block altering TiFlash replica statement being executed.
        - Check whether any DML statement is executed on the same table through [SHOW PROCESSLIST](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-processlist.md) that blocks altering TiFlash replica statement being executed.
    - You can wait until those queries or DDL finish or cancel them. If nothing is blocking the `ALTER TABLE ... SET TIFLASH REPLICA ...` being executed, go to the next step.

2. Check whether TiFlash Region replication runs correctly.

>    Check whether there is any change in `progress` of `information_schema.tiflash_replica`. Or you can check the `progress` field with keyword `Tiflash replica is not available` in TiDB logging:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Check whether there is any change in `progress` of `information_schema.tiflash_replica`. Alternatively, you can check the `progress` field with the keyword `Tiflash replica is not available` in TiDB logging:
```

>    - If changes are detected, it indicates TiFlash replication is functioning normally (though potentially at a slower pace). Please refer to the "Data replication is slow" section for optimization configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - If changes are detected, it indicates TiFlash replication is functioning normally (though potentially at a slower pace). Refer to [Data replication is slow](#data-replication-is-slow) for optimization configurations.
```

>    - If no, TiFlash replication is abnormal, go to the next step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - If no, TiFlash replication is abnormal. Go to the next step.
```

3. Check whether TiDB has created any placement rule for the table.

    Search the logs of TiDB DDL Owner and check whether TiDB has notified PD to add placement rules. For non-partitioned tables, search `ConfigureTiFlashPDForTable`. For partitioned tables, search `ConfigureTiFlashPDForPartitions`.

    - If the keyword is found, go to the next step.

>     - If not, collect logs of the corresponding component for troubleshooting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - If not found, collect logs of the corresponding component for troubleshooting.
```

4. Check whether PD has configured any placement rule for tables.

    Run the `curl http://<pd-ip>:<pd-port>/pd/api/v1/config/rules/group/tiflash` command to view all TiFlash placement rules on the current PD.

>     - If a rule with the ID being `table-<table_id>-r` is found, the PD has configured a placement rule successfully, go to the next step.
>     - If not, collect logs of the corresponding component for troubleshooting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - If a rule with the ID being `table-<table_id>-r` is found, the PD has configured a placement rule successfully. Go to the next step.
    - If not found, collect logs of the corresponding component for troubleshooting.
```

5. Check whether the PD schedules properly.

>     Search the `pd.log` file for the `table-<table_id>-r` keyword and scheduling behaviors like `add operator`. Or check whether there are `add-rule-peer` operator on the "Operator/Schedule operator create" of PD Dashboard on Grafana. You can also check the value "Scheduler/Patrol Region time" of PD Dashboard on Grafana. "Patrol Region time" reflects the duration for PD to scan all Regions and generate scheduling operations. A high value may cause delays in scheduling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Search the `pd.log` file for the `table-<table_id>-r` keyword and scheduling behaviors like `add operator`. Alternatively, check whether there are `add-rule-peer` operator on the "Operator/Schedule operator create" of PD Dashboard on Grafana. You can also check the value "Scheduler/Patrol Region time" on the PD Dashboard on Grafana. "Patrol Region time" reflects the duration for PD to scan all Regions and generate scheduling operations. A high value might cause delays in scheduling.
```

    - If the keyword is found, the PD schedules properly.

>     - If no scheduling operations is generated, or the "Patrol Region time" is more than 30 minutes, the PD does not schedule properly or is scheduling slowly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - If no scheduling operations are running, or the **Patrol Region time** is more than 30 minutes, the PD does not schedule properly or is scheduling slowly.
```

> If the above methods cannot resolve your issue, collect the TiDB, PD, TiFlash log files and [get support](/support.md) from PingCAP or the community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the preceding methods cannot resolve your issue, collect the TiDB, PD, TiFlash log files and [get support](/support.md) from PingCAP or the community.
```

## Data replication is slow

> The causes may vary. You can address the problem by performing the following steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The causes vary. You can address the problem by performing the following steps.
```
